For my final project for Flatiron, I tried to analyze the relationship between food insecurity, soil, poverty and weather.  I used four different datasets to do my analysis but could of easily expanded the scope of my project to link it to terrorism, poaching, health, income, etc.  All of my datasets I got off of kaggle, a website full of public available data.

The first notebook I analyzed a survey of different farming households in Africa.  I used the crops planted to see if they could be used to predict what crops should be grown in which countries.  From this I discovered there is a pattern between the crops and country, and with enough data this can be used as a model in the future for countries suffering from drought and desertification.

Second I used soil data that was also from Africa.  This dataset contained many different measurements, most were mid-range infrared absorbance measurements. These measurements are used to determine soil characteristics and to measure the content of important components of the soil like antioxidents.  First I compared all these measurements to each of the target variables: pH levels, Ca - calcium , SOC - soil organic, P - phosphorus, and sand content, and found that these measurements were most correlated with soil organic content. Then I ran all these measurements through a nueral network along with some other measurements and achieved a 73 percent accuracy in predicting the quality of the soil.

For my third notebook, I used the Human Development Index dataset.  The HDI is a summary measure of achievements in key dimensions of human development: a long and healthy life, access to knowledge, and a decent standard of living. The HDI is the geometric mean of normalized indices for each of the three dimensions. The health dimension is assessed by life expectancy at birth, the education dimension is measured by mean of years of education for adults aged 25 years and more and expected years of education for children, and the standard of living dimension is measured by gross national income per capita. I found that health deprivation is the strongest driver of the level of poverty.  Within this data, there was another kind of measurement, the Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) identifies multiple deprivations at the household level in education, health, and standard of living as indicators of poverty.


My last dataset was weather data from 1750 to 2015.  I did a time series using the average land temperature and was able to accurately forcast the weather with a mean absolute error of only 4.92. I also discovered that  when the difference in minimum amd maximum temperatures is the smallest thats when the maximum land temperature is the highest.  Changing weather patterns are going to have a dramatic impact on farming. With increased ocean temperatures increases the rate of evaporation, storms are going to become less frequent but more severe creating more runoff which will lead to soil erosion. This is only one example of how climate change will have a negative impact on the environment.  
